    library(irrCAC)

Installation
============

devtools::install\_github(“kgwet/irrCAC”)

Abstract
========

The **irrCAC** is an R package that provides several functions for
calculating various chance-corrected agreement coefficients. This
package closely follows the general framework of inter-rater reliability
assessment presented by Gwet (2014). A similar package was developed for
STATA users by Klein (2018).

The functions included in this package can handle 3 types of input data:
(1) the contingency table, (2) the distribution of raters by subject and
by category, (3) the raw data, which is essentially a plain dataset
where each row represents a subject and each column, the ratings
associated with one rater. The list of all datasets containined in this
package can be listed as follows:

      data(package="irrCAC")

Computing Agreement Coefficients
================================

Computing agreement Coefficients from Contingency tables
--------------------------------------------------------

**cont3x3abstractors** is one of 2 datasets included in this package and
that contain rating data from 2 raters organized in the form of a
contingency table. The following r script shows how to compute Cohen’s
kappa, Scott’s Pi, Gwet’s AC<sub>1</sub>, Brennan-Prediger,
Krippendorff’s alpha, and the percent agreement coefficients from this
dataset.

      cont3x3abstractors
    #>         Ectopic AIU NIU
    #> Ectopic      13   0   0
    #> AIU           0  20   7
    #> NIU           0   4  56
      kappa2.table(cont3x3abstractors)
    #>      coeff.name coeff.val   coeff.se     coeff.ci coeff.pval
    #> 1 Cohen's Kappa 0.7964094 0.05891072 (0.68,0.913)      0e+00
      scott2.table(cont3x3abstractors)
    #>   coeff.name coeff.val   coeff.se      coeff.ci coeff.pval
    #> 1 Scott's Pi 0.7962397 0.05905473 (0.679,0.913)      0e+00
      gwet.ac1.table(cont3x3abstractors)
    #>   coeff.name coeff.val   coeff.se      coeff.ci coeff.pval
    #> 1 Gwet's AC1 0.8493305 0.04321747 (0.764,0.935)      0e+00
      bp2.table(cont3x3abstractors)
    #>         coeff.name coeff.val   coeff.se      coeff.ci coeff.pval
    #> 1 Brennan-Prediger     0.835 0.04693346 (0.742,0.928)      0e+00
      krippen2.table(cont3x3abstractors)
    #>             coeff.name coeff.val   coeff.se     coeff.ci coeff.pval
    #> 1 Krippendorff's Alpha 0.7972585 0.05905473 (0.68,0.914)      0e+00
      pa2.table(cont3x3abstractors)
    #>          coeff.name coeff.val   coeff.se      coeff.ci coeff.pval
    #> 1 Percent Agreement      0.89 0.03128898 (0.828,0.952)      0e+00

Suppose that you only want to obtain Gwet’s AC<sub>1</sub> coefficient,
but don’t care about the associated precision measures such as the
standard error, confidence intervals or p-values. You can accomplish
this as follows:

      ac1 <- gwet.ac1.table(cont3x3abstractors)$coeff.val

Then use the variable ac1 to obtain AC<sub>1</sub> = 0.849.

Another contingency table included in this package is named
**cont3x3abstractors**. You may use it to experiment with the r
functions listed above.

Computing agreement coefficients from the distribution of raters by subject & category
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Included in this package is a small dataset named **distrib.6raters**,
which contains the distribution of 6 raters by subject and category.
Each row represents a subject (i.e. a psychiatric patient) and the
number of raters (i.e. psychiatrists) who classified it into each
category used in the inter-rater reliability study. Here is the dataset
and how it can be used to compute the various agreement coefficients:

    distrib.6raters
    #>    Depression Personality.Disorder Schizophrenia Neurosis Other
    #> 1           0                    0             0        6     0
    #> 2           0                    3             0        0     3
    #> 3           0                    1             4        0     1
    #> 4           0                    0             0        0     6
    #> 5           0                    3             0        3     0
    #> 6           2                    0             4        0     0
    #> 7           0                    0             4        0     2
    #> 8           2                    0             3        1     0
    #> 9           2                    0             0        4     0
    #> 10          0                    0             0        0     6
    #> 11          1                    0             0        5     0
    #> 12          1                    1             0        4     0
    #> 13          0                    3             3        0     0
    #> 14          1                    0             0        5     0
    #> 15          0                    2             0        3     1
    gwet.ac1.dist(distrib.6raters)
    #>   coeff.name     coeff     stderr      conf.int      p.value        pa
    #> 1 Gwet's AC1 0.4448007 0.08418757 (0.264,0.625) 0.0001155927 0.5511111
    #>          pe
    #> 1 0.1914815
    fleiss.kappa.dist(distrib.6raters)
    #>      coeff.name     coeff     stderr     conf.int      p.value        pa
    #> 1 Fleiss' Kappa 0.4139265 0.08119291 (0.24,0.588) 0.0001622724 0.5511111
    #>          pe
    #> 1 0.2340741
    krippen.alpha.dist(distrib.6raters)
    #>             coeff.name     coeff     stderr      conf.int      p.value
    #> 1 Krippendorff's Alpha 0.4204384 0.08243228 (0.244,0.597) 0.0001615721
    #>          pa        pe
    #> 1 0.5560988 0.2340741
    bp.coeff.dist(distrib.6raters)
    #>         coeff.name     coeff     stderr      conf.int   p.value        pa
    #> 1 Brennan-Prediger 0.4388889 0.08312142 (0.261,0.617) 0.0001163 0.5511111
    #>    pe
    #> 1 0.2

Once again, you can request a single value from these functions. To get
only Krippendorff’s alpha coefficient without it’s precission measures,
you may proceed as follows:

      alpha <- krippen.alpha.dist(distrib.6raters)$coeff

The newly-created alpha variable gives the coefficient *α* = 0.4204384.

Two additional datasets that represent ratings in the form of a
distribution of raters by subject and by category, are included in this
package. These datasets are **cac.dist4cat** and **cac.dist4cat**. Note
that these 2 datasets contain more columns than needed to run the 4
functions presented in this section. Therefore, the columns associated
with the response categories must be extracted from the original
datasets before running the functions. For example, computing Gwet’s
AC<sub>1</sub> coefficient using the **cac.dist4cat** dataset should be
done as follows:

      ac1 <- gwet.ac1.dist(cac.dist4cat[,2:4])$coeff

Note that the input dataset supplied to the function is
**cac.dist4cat\[,2:4\]**. That is, only columns 2, 3, and 4 are
extracted from the original datset and used as input data. We know from
the value of the newly created variable that AC<sub>1</sub> = 0.3518903.

Computing agreement coefficients from raw ratings
-------------------------------------------------

One example dataset of raw ratings included in this package is
**cac.raw4raters** and looks like this:

      cac.raw4raters
    #>    Rater1 Rater2 Rater3 Rater4
    #> 1       1      1     NA      1
    #> 2       2      2      3      2
    #> 3       3      3      3      3
    #> 4       3      3      3      3
    #> 5       2      2      2      2
    #> 6       1      2      3      4
    #> 7       4      4      4      4
    #> 8       1      1      2      1
    #> 9       2      2      2      2
    #> 10     NA      5      5      5
    #> 11     NA     NA      1      1
    #> 12     NA     NA      3     NA

As you can see, a dataset of raw ratings is merely a listing of ratings
that the raters assigned to the subjects. Each row is associated with a
single subject.Typically, the same subject would be rated by all or some
of the raters. The dataset **cac.raw4raters** contains some missing
ratings represented by the symbol NA, suggesting that some raters did
not rate all subjects. As a matter of fact, in this particular case, no
rater rated all subjects.

Here is you can compute the various agreement coefficients using the raw
ratings:

    pa.coeff.raw(cac.raw4raters)
    #> $est
    #>          coeff.name        pa pe coeff.val coeff.se  conf.int      p.value
    #> 1 Percent Agreement 0.8181818  0 0.8181818  0.12561 (0.542,1) 4.345373e-05
    #>       w.name
    #> 1 unweighted
    #> 
    #> $weights
    #>      [,1] [,2] [,3] [,4] [,5]
    #> [1,]    1    0    0    0    0
    #> [2,]    0    1    0    0    0
    #> [3,]    0    0    1    0    0
    #> [4,]    0    0    0    1    0
    #> [5,]    0    0    0    0    1
    #> 
    #> $categories
    #> [1] 1 2 3 4 5
    gwet.ac1.raw(cac.raw4raters)
    #> $est
    #>   coeff.name        pa        pe coeff.val coeff.se  conf.int     p.value
    #> 1        AC1 0.8181818 0.1903212   0.77544  0.14295 (0.461,1) 0.000208721
    #>       w.name
    #> 1 unweighted
    #> 
    #> $weights
    #>      [,1] [,2] [,3] [,4] [,5]
    #> [1,]    1    0    0    0    0
    #> [2,]    0    1    0    0    0
    #> [3,]    0    0    1    0    0
    #> [4,]    0    0    0    1    0
    #> [5,]    0    0    0    0    1
    #> 
    #> $categories
    #> [1] 1 2 3 4 5
    fleiss.kappa.raw(cac.raw4raters)
    #> $est
    #>      coeff.name        pa        pe coeff.val coeff.se  conf.int
    #> 1 Fleiss' Kappa 0.8181818 0.2387153   0.76117  0.15302 (0.424,1)
    #>       p.value     w.name
    #> 1 0.000419173 unweighted
    #> 
    #> $weights
    #>      [,1] [,2] [,3] [,4] [,5]
    #> [1,]    1    0    0    0    0
    #> [2,]    0    1    0    0    0
    #> [3,]    0    0    1    0    0
    #> [4,]    0    0    0    1    0
    #> [5,]    0    0    0    0    1
    #> 
    #> $categories
    #> [1] 1 2 3 4 5
    krippen.alpha.raw(cac.raw4raters)
    #> $est
    #>             coeff.name    pa   pe coeff.val coeff.se  conf.int
    #> 1 Krippendorff's Alpha 0.805 0.24   0.74342  0.14557 (0.419,1)
    #>        p.value     w.name
    #> 1 0.0004594257 unweighted
    #> 
    #> $weights
    #>      [,1] [,2] [,3] [,4] [,5]
    #> [1,]    1    0    0    0    0
    #> [2,]    0    1    0    0    0
    #> [3,]    0    0    1    0    0
    #> [4,]    0    0    0    1    0
    #> [5,]    0    0    0    0    1
    #> 
    #> $categories
    #> [1] 1 2 3 4 5
    conger.kappa.raw(cac.raw4raters)
    #> $est
    #>       coeff.name        pa        pe coeff.val coeff.se  conf.int
    #> 1 Conger's Kappa 0.8181818 0.2334252   0.76282  0.14917 (0.435,1)
    #>        p.value     w.name
    #> 1 0.0003367066 unweighted
    #> 
    #> $weights
    #>      [,1] [,2] [,3] [,4] [,5]
    #> [1,]    1    0    0    0    0
    #> [2,]    0    1    0    0    0
    #> [3,]    0    0    1    0    0
    #> [4,]    0    0    0    1    0
    #> [5,]    0    0    0    0    1
    #> 
    #> $categories
    #> [1] 1 2 3 4 5
    bp.coeff.raw(cac.raw4raters)
    #> $est
    #>         coeff.name        pa  pe coeff.val coeff.se  conf.int      p.value
    #> 1 Brennan-Prediger 0.8181818 0.2   0.77273  0.14472 (0.454,1) 0.0002375609
    #>       w.name
    #> 1 unweighted
    #> 
    #> $weights
    #>      [,1] [,2] [,3] [,4] [,5]
    #> [1,]    1    0    0    0    0
    #> [2,]    0    1    0    0    0
    #> [3,]    0    0    1    0    0
    #> [4,]    0    0    0    1    0
    #> [5,]    0    0    0    0    1
    #> 
    #> $categories
    #> [1] 1 2 3 4 5

Most users of this package will only be interessted in the agreement
coefficients and possibly in the related statistics such as the standard
error and p-values. In this case, you should run these functions as
follows (AC<sub>1</sub> is used here as an example. Feel free to
experiment with the other coefficients):

    ac1 <- gwet.ac1.raw(cac.raw4raters)$est
    ac1
    #>   coeff.name        pa        pe coeff.val coeff.se  conf.int     p.value
    #> 1        AC1 0.8181818 0.1903212   0.77544  0.14295 (0.461,1) 0.000208721
    #>       w.name
    #> 1 unweighted

You can even request only the AC<sub>1</sub> coefficient estimate
0.77544. You will then proceed as follows:

    ac1 <- gwet.ac1.raw(cac.raw4raters)$est
    ac1$coeff.val
    #> [1] 0.77544

References:
===========

1.  Gwet, K.L. (2014,
    [ISBN:978-0970806284](https://www.amazon.com/Handbook-Inter-Rater-Reliability-Definitive-Measuring/dp/0970806280/)).
    “*Handbook of Inter-Rater Reliability*,” 4th Edition. Advanced
    Analytics, LLC
2.  Klein, D. (2018)
    doi:<a href="https://doi.org/10.1177/1536867X1801800408" class="uri">https://doi.org/10.1177/1536867X1801800408</a>.
    “Implementing a general framework for assessing interrater agreement
    in Stata,” *The Stata Journal* Volume 18, Number 4, pp. 871-901.
